>> Evan You: So
what is a virtual DOM anyway?
The actual DOM,
most of us know the native DOM API.
For example document.createElement,
we can create a real
div node that represents this
div in our actual document.
So this is native API.
And it's internals are in fact
implementing C++ by the browser engine.
We don't actually get to touch most of it.
It just exposes the API in JavaScript for
us to work with it.
In comparision, the virtual DOM in view,
on each instance there's actually
this $createElement function which returns
a virtual node that also represents a div.
But it's just pure JavaScript.
It's just an object.
>> Evan You: The difference
is actually pretty huge.
Because as you know, if you log
a div's properties inside the browser,
you'll see that a real div node have so
many properties.
And the underlying implementation
is in fact pretty heavy.
And also,
because we are essentially calling this
native code via a JavaScript interface,
there is this cost of communication
between the two sides.
And it's going to be more expensive than,
say,
doing pure Javascript operations
in pure Javascript land.
So this is why a lot of times we say if
you touch the DOM, things get slower.
In some browsers,
they might optimize that.
But in general, there is this slight
overhead when you are reaching
to native stuff from the JavaScript side.
>> Evan You: So as you can see,
the virtual DOM div is just an object.
It has a tag that tells us it's a div.
It has a data object,
which contains possible attributes.
If it doesn't have any attributes, it
doesn't even need to have a data object.
And then it can have a list of children,
which is an array of more virtual nodes,
so now we have a tree of virtual nodes
which constitute the virtual DOM.
>> Evan You: So this is just
very high-level understanding.
Virtual DOM is cheaper than
the actual DOM, right?
So let's say we have
a list of 1,000 elements.
Creating 1,000 JavaScript
objects is pretty cheap.
It's pretty fast as well.
But creating 1,000 actual div nodes
is much, much more expensive, okay?
>> Evan You: So this virtual DOM is
essentially a lightweight JavaScript data
format to represent what the actual DOM
should look like at a given point in time.
This is important because we're generating
copies of virtual DOM on every update.
This is only made possible because
virtual DOM is cheaper than real DOM is.
If we, say, use inner HTML to update our
app, we're essentially throwing away all
the previous DOM nodes, real DOM nodes,
regenerating all the real DOM nodes again.
So this cost is much much
more expensive than, say,
just generating a new
virtual DOM snapshot.
And inner HTML also has a problem.
It throws away the current state on, say,
form input elements and all that stuff.
But a common misunderstanding is virtual
DOM is what makes a lot of these
frameworks fast.
It does not.
Virtual DOM is just a way to get around
the limitations of the original DOM so
that it enables this
paradigm of declaratively composing
what you want the DOM to look like.
So this unlocks a bunch of possibilities.
But there's also this comparison between,
>> Evan You: Well,
I'll talk about it later.
Another benefit of the virtual DOM
is that it decouples rendering
logic from the actual DOM, right?
So we have the steps of diffing,
then we apply those changes to the DOM.
If we throw away the last step,
all of our apps updating logic can
actually be executed virtually.
It doesn't need to ever touch the DOM.
And in fact, if we abstract out
these eventual connecting points,
API's that touch the DOM and then sort
of redirect them to other places.
We can create the same app running
virtually in any environment that supports
JavaScript, but it doesn't
necessarily have to touch the DOM.
Instead, it can talk to a native rendering
engine, for example, iOS or Android.
Or on the server side, we can turn
the virtual DOM into strings or
a string finder.
So making a virtual DOM
talk to a native rendering
instead is what enables projects like
react native, weeks, native script.
They all have this similar
architecture where
the JavaScript app runs virtually
inside an embedded JavaScript engine.
And it only sends the necessary
messages about, after say diffing,
or any actual node operations
send to the render aside.
So this is the architectural
advantage of virtual DOM.
Obviously, virtual DOM is not
the only way to achieve that, but
it's a pretty good way to do that.
And render function, finally, it's just
a function that returns Virtual DOM.
Okay, so templates in VJS are compiling
to render functions by the compiler.
So we have a little app called
View Template Explorer,
which you can use to sort of get a,
you can explore how the templates
are compiled into render functions.
But we'll talk about what render functions
actually look like in more details later.